Jeremy is the Director Data at Toitū Te Whenua Land Information New Zealand and has been using FOSS4G since 2003! His journey into using open source geospatial began in 2003 when I was working on a data management project for his agency. He was struggling with finding a suitable solution for managing large geospatial dataset until he discovered PostGIS, an open source geospatial database. He was so surprised by the dedication of the developers who worked tirelessly to help him solve his problems, even if the software didn't originally support his need. This discovery opened up a whole new world of possibilities for him, as he realised the potential of open source and open data to transform geospatial analysis and make it more accessible to everyone. 
As he continued to explore the open source geospatial community, he found himself drawn to the collaborative and innovative spirit of the community. The open source geospatial community was passionate about using technology to solve real-world problems, and he knew that he wanted to be a part of that movement. 
He is the recipient of various personal and team awards including: Personal Achievement - Winner of the ‘New Professional of the Year’ award at the 2013 Institute of Public Administration New Zealand (IPANZ) Public Sector Excellence Awards; LINZ Data Service - Winner of the ‘Spatial Enablement’ category and the JK Barrie Award for Overall Excellence at the Asia-Pacific Spatial Excellence Awards (APSEA) 2012 (Manager of the LINZ Data Service); and LINZ Data Service - Winner of the Geospatial Application Excellence Award in Infrastructure, Geospatial World Awards in Geneva 2014  (Manager of the LINZ Data Service)
 <br/>
[Github](https://github.com/palmerj) [LinkedIn](https://nz.linkedin.com/in/jeremypalmernz) [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hiHpteHjz3A)<br/>
## Mapping the Future: The Intersection of Geospatial, Open Source, and Open Data<br/>
The New Zealand government commitment to open geospatial data and services has helped unlocked the full potential of geospatial data and analysis, empowering innovators to create accessible services that benefit all. With open source and open data, developers and user can tackle complex issues such as urban development, climate change, resilience, Māori prosperity, and New Zealanders' wellbeing with new approaches. <br/>
### Jeremy will be presenting at 9.50am, Tuesday 17th October in the Plenary Room
