Orisi Naivalurua is currently a Technical and Research Officer at the Pacific Community (SPC); under the Disaster Community Resilience Program (DCRP), which sits under the Geoscience, Energy & Maritime (GEM) Division. His experience in Pacific Island countries (PICs) has revolved around assisting country stakeholders in updating national risk information in an effort to assist PICs in making accurate risk-informed decisions. Under the Capacity Building on the Hazard and Exposure Database for the Pacific Catastrophe Risk Assessment & Financing Initiative (PCRAFI) Project, he and his team have worked with PICs to help update risk data in the Pacific Risk Information System (PacRIS) through in-country exposure and impact surveys, whilst introducing and utilizing open-sourced tools.<br/>
With a continued focus on hard-work, perseverance and the right attitude, Orisi has been able to put his background knowledge in Geographic Information Systems (GIS), disaster risk knowledge, and climate change to good use. When he’s not in the office, Orisi enjoys his time outdoors; whether on a field playing a game of rugby, or in the farm investing/tilling the land. His passion is in building the next generation and setting the right foundational principles (in whatever aspect it may be) with education, proper guidance, continuous support and sensitive encouragement over the young leaders of tomorrow. 
 <br/>
 [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/orisi-naivalurua-75b8161ba)<br/>
## Capacity Building on the Hazard and Exposure Database for the Pacific Catastrophe Risk Assessment & Financing Initiative II (PCRAFII) Project<br/>
This presentation will present on how the project worked with countries to use open-source tools for the exposure data mapping and the validation and quality assurance process through to the uploading of data on the open-source platform PacRIS. The workflow and the results from the project will be presented, as well as the lessons learnt that were captured in the follow up evaluations with each country. Examples of how the country representatives have taken the tools land also utilised them for their core work will also be presented. The presentation will also show how this work is being built upon by other projects such as PARtneR to further build the regions capabilities in risk assessment contributing to disaster and finance risk in the region. 
<!--Orisi's involvement in the [PCRAFII](https://www.gfdrr.org/en/pacific-catastrophe-risk-assessment-and-financing-initiative-phase-3) has seen the implemention of Open Source tools, including Kobo Toolbox and QGIS throughout the project area including the Republic of Marshall Islands, Samoa, Solomon Islands, the Kingdom of Tonga, Republic of Vanuatu, and the Cook Islands. In his keynote, he will expand on the challenges, successes and opportunities this project has presented. -->
 <!-- ### Keynote session time TBC -->
